[Intro] display problems -- standby and maximized

Build ID: I20070625-1500 Several problems with intro part presentation: - Standby Welcome view shows non-standby content - Maximized Welcome view shows standby content - Welcome view (both maximized and standby) intermittently obscures toolbar and perspective switcher All of these were observed in fresh installations of various Eclipse 3.3 download options (Classic, RCP, etc.), with default universal intro implementation. Steps To Reproduce (standby view shows non-standby content): 1. Launch eclipse.exe and point to new (empty) workspace. Maximized Welcome view opens in Java perspective. 2. Select Window>Open Perspective>Other. 3. Select Plug-in Development; click OK. Standby Welcome view in newly opened perspective shows a cut-off portion of the normal (maximized) content, not the correct standby content. Also notice that the PD perspective is missing the toolbar under the main menu and the perspective switcher. Note: This works for any different perspective you select when Welcome is maximized. 4. Click Maximize icon on Welcome view (beside view tab). Maximized Welcome view appears in PD perspective. 5. Click Restore icon on the Welcome view (same icon as above). Standby Welcome view now shows correct standby content, and now the toolbar and perspective switcher magically appear. Steps To Reproduce (maximized view shows standby content): 1. Open any two perspectives, with no Welcome (i.e., Welcome view closed). 2. Select Help>Welcome. Maximized Welcome view opens in current perspective. 3. Change perspective (either from menu, or Ctrl-F8/Ctrl-Shift-F8). Standby Welcome view shows non-standby content, and toolbar and perspective switcher are missing. 4. Change perspective again (either way), back to the perspective in which Welcome was opened (i.e., perspective with maximized Welcome view). Maximized Welcome view now shows standby content, and the toolbar and perspective switcher appear. Other variations of this behavior can be observed by minimizing and restoring the intro and switching perspectives.