code generation at Insertion point option not being preserved

Build ID: I20080617-2000 My previous environment was Eclipse 3.2 with MyEclipse 6.0 Apologies for the long post as I do not know which of these actions caused the problem. I d/l Eclipse 3.4 with WPT. Since WPT does not have the option to convert a Java project to a Dynamic Web Project, I backed up my project, then deleted it from within Eclipse. I then created a Dynamic Web Project, exited Eclipse, and copied over the project source. I noticed that WPT was deploying the project to Tomcat using the project name (all caps), rather than the context (all lower case). At this point the getter/setter was maintaining my insertion point choice (last method). In addition other settings were also being maintained (lib deployment, problem view column widths). I created a post on the eclipse newsgroups (eclipse.webtools) named "Web App Content" and asked about the deployment name. I opened the file named org.eclipse.wst.common.component and edited the <wb-module deploy-name> property. I opened Eclipse and found that my project could not be opened. I tried several ways and at one point had the project showing twice in the Project Explorer view. I exited Eclipse with the intention of changing the deploy-name back. Eclipse immediately died. Windows popped up a msg stating that Eclipse had stopped prematurely. I deleted the project and the eclipse directory and did a fresh install. Upon starting Eclipse there was an error that my project could not be found. I deleted it, then created a new Dynamic Web Project, but this time with a lower case name. I exited Eclipse, then copied over the source code. I then started Eclipse. All seemed well. I then found that the getter/setter insertion point was not being persisted, either between calls or between Eclipse starts. I created a post in eclipse.newcomer named "Persist Getter/Setter Insertion Point". I also noticed that the column widths in the Problem View are also not being persisted. This may be related.